============================
Scarabée 0.1.1 Release Notes
============================

-----------
New License
-----------

The very first release of Scarabée was under the GPLv3 license. It was realized that
this could potentially pose problems down the road if integration with other open-source
nuclear engineering tools was desired. Additionally, it meant all Python scripts using
Scarabée written by others would also need to be GPLv3 licensed if distributed, which
was not the initial intent. As such, all contributors to Scarabée up until this release
have agreed to re-license Scarabée under the LGPLv3 `(see #20)
<https://github.com/scarabee-dev/scarabee/pull/20>`_. This means that Scarabée can be
more easily included as a dependency in other open-source projects with a permissive
license, and Python scripts which simply use Scarabée can be under whatever license the
author desires.

--------------------
Importan API Changes
--------------------

- The moderator parameters (boron concentration, temperature, and pressure) are now
  specified on a PWRAssembly using a dictionary, instead of each trait having its own
  parameter in the constructor.
- DiffusionData no longer contains any form factors. These are now stored in their own
  dedicated class, FormFactors. You will not be able to de-serialize previously stored
  DiffusionData instances with this new version, and you will need to re-run assembly
  problems to re-generate nodal data.
- The NEMDiffusionDriver can no longer perform pin power reconstruction.

------------
New Features
------------

- The logger now uses colors in the terminal.
- Information about the nuclear data library is now written to the log, so that you know
  what library was used in a simulation.
- New Scarabée-155 group structure for better performance with MOX fuel.
- The MOCDriver now performs tests on the angular quadrature to check for particle
  conservation. These tests are only performed when using anisotropic scattering, as
  that is the only case when the quadrature choice can lead to particle conservation
  troubles. If the quadrature does not ensure particle conservation, warnings are
  written to the log. This could indicate that CMFD might have convergence problems.
- The MOCDriver now performs tests to ensure that all flat source regions are crossed by
  at least one track for each azimuthal angle. If this is not the case, an error will be
  written to the log.
- There is now a method on the Material class to compute the cross sections
  corresponding to an infinite homogeneous medium.
- There is a new critical spectrum solver called FundamentalModeCriticalSpectrum. This
  solver does not compute the current or diffusion coefficients. Instead, it uses the
  provided transport cross sections to compute the required buckling. This method aligns
  with the approach provided in section 1.7 of the Lattice Physics Computations chapter
  by Knott and Yamamoto from the Handbook.
- DiffusionData instances how have a reflector indication flag. If True, the
  discontinuity factor on the reflector side will be multiplied by the corresponding
  discontinuity factor on the fuel side. This is implemented in the DiffusionGeometry,
  so it works with both the FDDiffusionDriver and the NEMDiffusionDriver, and helps
  improve reflector performance in the full core model.
- A new LeakageCorrections class now exists, which can be optionally added to a
  DiffusionData. It contains the linear coefficients to update few-group diffusion cross
  sections based on the in-situ leakage-to-removal ratio.
- The NEMDiffusionDriver will now update the nodal cross sections every 50 iterations,
  using the LeakageCorrections data (if present) and the node averaged buckling. This
  requires that the DiffusionData has few-group cross sections which were not generated
  with the leakage model (see new PWRAssembly option below). To disable this feature,
  the NEMDiffusionDriver now has a leakage_corrections flag which can be set to False.
- The PWRAssembly class now has a leakage_corrections flag, which if True (default
  value), will generate DiffusionData few-group cross sections without the leakage
  model, but will contain a LeakageCorrections instance to update the few-group cross
  sections in the nodal solver. If False, the few-group cross sections will have the
  leakage model applied. Because this is now the default mode, DiffusionData produced in
  this manner for the nodal solver will no longer yield equivalent results to the
  finite-difference solver !
- You can now either specify the parameters for the moderator in a PWRAssembly, or you
  can directly provide a Material instance. This is highly useful, as some benchmarks
  specifically provide atom concentrations, which likely will not be in agreement with
  the borated_water function which is used otherwise.
- It is now possible to reflect DiffusionData across either the x or y axis, which now
  makes it fully possible to generate unique nodal data for each quadrant of an assembly.
  This is needed when modeling asymmetric burnable poison configurations.
- There is a new FormFactors class which represents the form factors for an entire
  assembly. Like DiffusionData, they can be rotated or reflected.
- While there was previously the option to generate independent quadrant nodal data from
  the PWRAssembly class, it wasn't usable in practice because you couldn't correclty
  reorient a quadrant without reflections. This problem is not resolved with the new
  reflection methods on DiffusionData and FormFactors.
- A new CoreFormFactors class facilitates pin power reconstruction, and is more versatile
  than the previous add-hoc solution which was located in the NEMDiffusionDriver, and has
  been removed.
- A new CoreBuilder class facilitates building a full core nodal modal, along with the
  corresponding CoreFormFactors. It can also carry our pin power reconstruction and 
  compute assembly powers. It uses SimpleTile and QuadrantsTile to describe the full core
  geometry, both inheriting from CoreTile. This makes it easier to describe cores where
  some assemblies might be asymmetric with unique quadrants.

---------
Bug Fixes
---------

- Documentation for various depletion components was missing from the previous release.
- The average fuel nuclide density across an assembly in the PWRAssembly class was being
  calculated incorrectly.
- Improves convergence and stability of CMFD acceleration `#17
  <https://github.com/scarabee-dev/scarabee/pull/17>`_.
- The B1 and P1 critical spectrum methods did not correctly consider the case where a
  desired buckling was provided. In particular, it did not allow negative bucklings, and
  would square the user provided input.
- The critical leakage model was not being used to generate few-group diffusion cross
  sections. This was leading to very inaccurate full core diffusion results.
- The average flux was not being computed correctly in the reflector region of the
  Reflector class, causing strong in/out power tilts in the full core models.
- It was previously possible to have a negative homogeneous flux on the vacuum boundary
  of the reflector region in the Reflector class, which is nonphysical. To avoid this
  problem, the diffusion coefficients are iteratively increased by a small fraction
  until the scalar flux is positive at the vacuum boundary. The resulting diffusion
  coefficients are used for the reflector, and the resulting homogeneous flux is used to
  compute the discontinuity factors.
- The B1 critical spectrum method was not correctly implemented, and generated erroneous
  values for the diffusion coefficients and flux spectrum.
- The P1 and B1 critical spectrum methods could not compute the diffusion coefficients
  when the buckling was zero.
- The rotate_counterclockwise method on DiffusionData was not correctly implemented.

------------
Contributors
------------

- `Hunter Belanger <https://github.com/HunterBelanger>`_
- `Parth Singh <https://github.com/2018uch0002>`_
- `Jason Gaiardelli <https://github.com/gaiarj>`_
